# Adding isolation with the Wasm sandbox backend

The `noop` backend makes it easy to add security checks. However, it does not enforce
isolation. To finish sandboxing your library, we will need to.

1. Update the application `main.cpp` to use the `wasm2c` sandbox backend instead
   of `noop`.

2. Compile our library e.g. `mylib.c` to wasm i.e. `mylib.wasm` -- adding
   isolation to your library.

3. Compile that resulting `mylib.wasm` file to C (`mylib.wasm.c` and `mylib.wasm.h`)
   with the `wasm2c` compiler -- allow it to be compiled and linked with our
   application.

4. Compile and link the sandboxed library and our application.

We will look at each these steps next.

## Switching to the wasm2c backend

Show below is a diff of ``main.cpp`` in our first example (using the `noop`
sandbox backend) and in our current example (using the `wasm2c` backend).

```
{{#include examples/wasm-hello-example/main-diff.txt}}
```

As you can see, most of what has changed is renaming a few key instances of
`noop` to `wasm2c`, most notably to change our backend type on line 10.

The only other changes are ```#include "mylib.wasm.h"``` on line 13, which
brings in the new header for our sandboxed library generated by `wasm2c`.

These are essentially all the changes you will need to make to your application
to switch wasm backends.

The changes to how rlbox is included on lines 14 and 15 are just an artifact of
differences how our examples are built.


## Our example Makefile

Doing all of these steps a command at a time would be terribly tedious.
Instead, we automate all these steps with a simple make file. Lets take a look
at our full [Makefile](examples/wasm-hello-example/Makefile), then walk through
each part.

```Makefile
{{#include examples/wasm-hello-example/Makefile}}
```

### Definitions

To start we can see our Makefile begins with RLBOX_ROOT: 

```Makefile
{{#include examples/wasm-hello-example/Makefile:0}}
```

Which just specificies where our `rlbox_wasm2c_sandbox` repo's root directory
lives. This repo contains all the tools we will need build our sandboxed library
e.g. `wasm2c`, our wasi-sdk (which CMake downloads), RLbox, etc.

### Step 1: Compiling our library to Wasm

```Makefile
{{#include examples/wasm-hello-example/Makefile:27:28}}
```

Here we are building our library to wasm. Typically you will just want to update
your build system to use the wasi-sdk `clang` (or wasi-clang) as your compiler.
wasi-clang will link wasi-libc (a custom version of musl) with your library
instead of the system `libc`. The wasi-libc library and headers live in
`$WASI_SYSROOT`

Also note worthy are the `$(WASM_CFLAGS)` which are important to ensure that
our output plays nicely with the rest of the toolchain.

<!-- XXX explain flags -->

Notice the `dummy_main.c` file to keep wasi-clang happy, you can find a copy
`rlbox_wasm2c_sandbox/_src/wasm2c_sandbox_wrapper.c`

wasi-libc at the moment has a variety of limitations such as lack of pthread
support (though this should be fixed soon!). Anything platform specific such as
OS specific system calls (or just system calls that Wasi doesn't support), or
platform specific code e.g. inline assembly will also fail at this stage.


### Step 2: Using `wasm2c` to generate our sandboxed library

```Makefile
{{#include examples/wasm-hello-example/Makefile:31:32}}
```


Here we use our fork of `wasm2` to generates a `mylib.wasm.c` C file which
implements and can be linked with an application. 

<!-- XXX how do we use mylib.wasm.h -->
<!-- XXX depends on wasm runtime to provide capabilities required by core wasm api -->
<!-- e.g. memory allocation to grow heap. wasm-libc will make `system calls` to wasi -->
<!-- which are implemented by the wasi-runtime. -->

The wasi runtime that ships with wasm2c at present implements only
a subset of the Wasi API and denies all access to the file system 
and network. 


> **Note**: While RLBox currently only works with our fork of `wasm2c` we
> hope to upstream our changes to `wasm2c` in the near future.


### Step 3: Compiling and linking our application with our library

```Makefile
{{#include examples/wasm-hello-example/Makefile:35:37}}
```

<!-- XXX not our .c and .h files -->
<!-- XXX explain seperate library compile and link step -->
<!-- XXX explain wasi and wasm runtime -->
<!-- XXX files and headers -->
